{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid9515453 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid328992\rsid4606331\rsid5991405\rsid6951569\rsid9515453\rsid10754201\rsid15415799}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.5815;}{\info
{\title READ_ME}{\author jcurtis}{\operator Paulo Serpa}{\creatim\yr2002\mo11\dy22\hr15\min19}{\revtim\yr2004\mo9\dy14\hr9\min2}{\version5}{\edmins6}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords693}{\nofchars3955}{\*\company California Department of Fish & Game}
{\nofcharsws4639}{\vern16501}}\margl1319\margr1319 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale120\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot5991405 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid9515453\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9515453 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 READ_ME.TXT
\par 
\par MINIMUM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
\par 
\par 1. Windows 2000 (NT), 98, 95, or ME operating system.
\par 2. Pentium III 133 }{\insrsid10754201\charrsid9515453 MHz}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453  and 64 MB of RAM.  Pentium III 350 }{\insrsid10754201\charrsid9515453 MHz}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453  and 128 MB RAM suggested.
\par 3. 10 MB of free hard drive space.
\par 4. Microsoft\'ae Access 2002.  2000 will work but is not suggested.
\par 5. Microsoft\'ae Excel (if you wish to view the original flat-file).
\par 
\par FILES FOUND ON LIFE HISTORY CD
\par 
\par Life History Database Version 1.Mdb
\par (Format: Microsoft\'ae Access 2002)
\par The life history database
\par 
\par }{\insrsid328992 Read_Me.rtf}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 
\par (Format: basic text format)
\par 
\par 
\par INSTALLATION}{\insrsid15415799  (For files retrieved from CD only)}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 
\par 
\par 1. Open the Life History Database folder on the CD and copy the file "Life History Database Version 1" to your hard drive.  The database will not run properly if run from the CD.}{\insrsid10754201   }{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 
It must be placed on rewritable media in order for it to work properly.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4606331 {\insrsid4606331 2. }{\insrsid4606331\charrsid4606331 
Right-click on the file (do not open it) and choose properties.  On the General tab, unclick the read-only attribute.  The database will not work when set to read-only.
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9515453 {\insrsid4606331 3}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 . Open the file "Life History Database Version 1.0" in Microsoft\'ae
 Access 2002.  The database can be opened on Microsoft Access 2000 but may experience unexpected errors due to being run on an earlier version of Microsoft Access.
\par }{\insrsid4606331 4}{\insrsid328992\charrsid9515453 . Use the main menu to maneuver through the database.  There are directions on each form to help you retrieve the information you require.   
\par 
\par DATABASE CONVERSION
\par 
\par This database was designed by importing a large amount of data from the report, \'93Biological Characteristics of Nearshore Fishes of California: A Review of Existing Knowledge and Proposed Additional Studies\'94
 (Cailliet et al. 2000), a non-relational, Microsoft\'ae Excel database (also known as a \'93flat\'94 file), into a relational, query-able database using Microsoft\'ae Access.  The original Microsoft\'ae
 Excel flat file contained 32 separate worksheets within a single Microsoft\'ae Excel Workbook.  Each worksheet contained
 86 separate fields (sometimes 87) of information arranged in columns and organized by subject.  The referenced citation for each piece of information was listed beneath each column and linked to the information using a number.  The database contains over
 1200 cited references with each reference being cited one or more times.  
\par 
\par 
\par This information was converted into a Microsoft\'ae Access database with 131 tables and 16,985 unique records all related to one another by species.  In addition, the database was designed to allow those without any Microsoft\'ae
 Access experience to easily maneuver through the process of creating and running queries, filtering and sorting the data, and exporting the results to excel for further analysis.  All this is done through a user
-friendly, front-end interface that seamlessly accesses the database\rquote s complexity without the need for any knowledge of database design.
\par 
\par DATA ACCURACY
\par While every effort was taken to insure the accuracy of the conversion from Microsoft\'ae Excel to Microsoft\'ae Access, it is possible that there are errors contained within the database.  There are three types of errors that might be present:
\par 
\par 1) Original Error - An error contained in the original report (Cailliet et al. 2000) that has been carried through to the current database format.
\par 2) Transcription Error \endash  an error created through a change in the text of a specific piece of information.
\par 3) Relationship Error \endash  an error created by a break in the original relationship between species and data or data and reference. 
\par 
\par Due to the possible existence of these errors, it is suggested that the information contained within this database be used only as a guide and that any data from this database be compared to the original cited article or study before being utilized.

\par 
\par California Department of Fish & Game\rquote 
s goal for this database is to make it as accurate and complete as possible.  Therefore, comments regarding any errors found or any nearshore life history studies or information not represented in this database are w
elcome and appreciated.  The more specific the description of the error or study, the easier it is for us to update/correct the database.  Please send your comments to the Department of Fish and Game\rquote 
s Marine Region (email: Deb Wilson-Vandenberg at dwilsonv@dfg.ca.gov or Joshua Curtis at jcurtis@dfg.ca.gov).
\par 
\par CONTACT INFORMATION
\par For more information on the database design or to send any comments, please contact Deb Wilson-Vandenberg at dwilsonv@dfg.ca.gov or Joshua Curtis at jcurtis@dfg.ca.gov.
\par 
\par DATABASE DESIGNER
\par This database was designed and created by:
\par 
\par Joshua Curtis
\par Research Analyst I
\par Marine Region
\par California Department of Fish & Game
\par 20 Lower Ragsdale Dr., Suite 100
\par Monterey, CA 93940}{\insrsid9515453 
\par }}